Chapter 1

1). Compare and contrast data, databases, database (management) systems and information systems.
  Data - known facts that can be recorded and have implicit meaning, collection of related data with an implicit meaning is a database.
  Databases - logically coherent collection of related data with some related meaning, represents some aspect of the real world (miniworld),
              designed for a specific purpose, can be of any size and complexity.
  Datbase management systems - computerized system that enables users to create and maintain a database, general-purpose software system that
                               facilitates the processes of defining, constructing, manipulating, and sharing databases among various users and apps.
                               Database definition or descriptive information is also stored by the DBMS in the form of a database catlog or dictionary. 
  Information systems - consists of various computers, storage systems, application software, and databases, database is part of this larger
                        undertaking within an organization. 

2). Compare and contrast database systems with the following, using the main characteristics of the database approach in your discussion.
  + data structures and algorithms
  + traditional file systems
  In the database approach, a single repository maintains data that is defined once and then accessed by various users repeatedly through queries, 
  transactions, and application programs. Wherewas, in file processing, each user defines and implements the files needed for a specific software application
  as part of programming the application. The database approach has the following characteristics: self-describing nature, insulation between 
  programs and data (and data abstraction), support of multiple views of the data, and sharing of data and multiuser transaction processing. 
  A DBMS provides users with a conceptual representation of data that doesn't include many of the details of how the data is stored or how the 
  operations are implemented (which is counter to that of data structures and algorithms, which detail those two things). 

3). Identify the stakeholders of database systems.
  End users are an example of stakeholders. 

Chapter 2

1). Explain the significance of the categories of data models. Which type of model is displayed in Figure 2.1?
  They describe the database structure.  
  Schema is the type of model displayed in Figure 2.1.

2). Explain the structure and significance of the three-schema architecture.
  Seperates the user applications from the physical database. There are three levels: 1). Internal level - describes the physical storage structure
  of the database. 2). Conceptual level - describes the structure of the whole database for a community of users. 3). External level - describes part of 
  the database that a particular user group is interested in and hides the rest of the database from that user group. Significant because it helps
  achieve and visualize three of the four important characteristics of the database approach (self-describing, insulation of programs and data, and 
  support of multiple user views). 
  
3). Explain the tiers used in a typical web-based information system.
  Client and server are two of the tiers (user machine and system that comtains both hardware and software that can provide services to the client), 
  and an intermediate layer called the application server which runs application programs and stores business rules that are used to access data from the database server. 
