1. Read Chapter 3.

a). Compare and contrast the database and the software design processes. Are agile modeling practices applicable to database design as well?
	They are similar in terms of the requirements collection and analysis phases. Both collect and obtain information regarding dependencies
	and analyze a problem, though one does so for a database and the other for a software application. The requirements for both also get 
	separated into functional and data requirements. However, the database design looks at both separately; functional requirements undergo
	functional analysis and data requirements undergo the conceptual design phase. Agile modeling practices could be applicable to database 
	design, as long as the database can be changed incrementally and the design is flexible to allow for that change. 

b). Explain the following terms: entities, relationships (including cardinality and participation constraints), attributes (simple, composite, multi-valued and derived).
  + Entities: basic concept in the ER (Entity-Relationship) model, which is a thing or object in the real world with an independent
              existence (examples include a car, house...), or it may be an object with a conceptual existence (examples include 
              a company, job...). Each entity has attributes and will have a particular entity will have a value for each of 
              its attributes.  
  
  + Relationships: there are several implicit relationships amongst various entity types, whereby an attribute of one entity type 
	refers to another entity type. In the ER model, these are relationships. In the initial design of entity types, relationships 
	are typically captured in the form of attributes (but get converted into relationships between entity types as the design is 
	furthe refined). The cardinality ratio for a binary relationship (whereby two entities are participating in a relationship) 
	specifies the max number of relationship instances that an entity can participate in. The possible cardinality ratios for 
	binary relationships are 1:1, 1:N, N:1, and M:N. The participation constraint specifies whether the existence of an entity depends
	on it sbeing related to another entity via the relationship type. It specifies the min number of relationship instances that 
	each entity can participate in and is sometimes called the minimum cardinality constraint.
  
  + Attributes: particular properties that describe entities. The attribute values that describe each entity become a major part of the
                data stored in the database. There are many different types of attributes: simple and composite, single-valued and 
                multi-valued, and stored and derived.
                - Composite attributes: attributes that can be divided into smaller subparts, which represent more basic attributes 
                  with independent meanings. They can form a hierarchy, whereby the value of a composite attribute is the 
                  concatenation of the values of its component simple attributes. Useful to model situations in which a user 
                  sometimes refers to the composite attribute as a unit but at other times refers specifically to its components.
                  If the composite attribute is referenced only as a whole, there is no need to subdivide it into its 
                  constituient simple attributes.
                - Simple attributes: attributes that cannot be divided into smaller subparts (also known as atomic attributes).
                  They tend to form composite attributes, whereby their concatenation forms the value for the composite attribute.
                - Single-valued: attributes which have a single value for a particular entity. 
                - Multi-valued: attributes which have a set of values for the same entity. Different entities can have different numbers
                  of values for the multi-valued attribute. A multi-valued attribute may have lower and upper bounds to constrain 
                  the number of values allowed for each individual entity. 
                - Stored and Derived: attributes which have values that are related and whereby one can be derivable from the other. 
                  The derived attribute is the one that is derivable from another attribute, which is the stored attribute. 
                  Some attribute values can be derived from related entities. 
                
c). Explain weak entities and identifying relationships.
  + Weak entities: entities that do not have key attributes of their own. Entities belonging to this type are identified by being related 
	to specific entities from another entity type in combination with one of their attribute values. They always have a total participation
	constraint (or existence dependency) with respect to their identifying relationship because a weak entity cannot be identified without 
	an owner entity. They normally have partial keys, which are attributes that can uniquely identify weak entities that are related to the
	same owner entity. In an ER diagram, weak entities and their identifying relationships are distinguished by surrounding their boxes and 
	diamonds with double lines. Partial keys are underlined with a dashed or dotted line. Weak entities can sometimes be represented as complex
	attributes. In general, any number of levels of weak entities can be defined. They may also have more than one identifying entity type
	and an identifying relationship of degree higher than 2 (which means that more than 2 entities participate in the relationship).
	
  + Identifying relationships: relationship type that relates a weak entity type to its owner (or identifying entity type). 

d). Model a person-household database (from class 2) using an ERD.
	(See diagram that I drew in my notebook).

e). Skim the material in Section 3.8 on UML diagrams; we won’t use it here but we have addressed it in CS 262 and will review it in unit 11.

2). Read Chapter 9.

a). Map the ERD model from above to a relational database model.
	(See diagram in notes).
	
b). Explain how to map from a UML model to a relational database model. We will address this issue more carefully in a later unit (on object-relational mapping).
	Classes are entities, and the associations are relationship types. Given this, you could map the classes and associations as you would normally for an ERD-Relational 
	mapping. 