Homework 3 - Exercise 1

a). A flight is the path a plane takes from an airport at scheduled times on a particular set of weekdays. A flight leg is the nonstop portion of a flight;
	it is part of the path that a plane takes without stopping from an airport to a specified destination. A flight leg instance is a particular occurrence 
	of a flight leg on a particular date. The same flight leg could occur on different dates, so an instance of the flight leg would be on one of those dates. 
	The difference is as follows. A flight is made up of flight legs; the flight is the full distance from one destination to another on a specified date, 
	while a flight leg is a portion of that distance from one destination to another. This may occur with layover flights, for example, where you 
	have to fly from one location to the next before you can reach your actual destination. A flight leg instance is one of a particular leg of a flight 
	on a certain date. The difference is thus in the distance each one takes and on what dates they occur. Flights have a much greater covered distance
	than flight legs do, and flight leg instances are those of a particular flight leg but on different dates. 

b). This notation marks a partial key for a weak entity. You need some way of identifying a weak entity, and so you would use a partial key to do so.
	(A partial key is an attribute that can uniquely identify weak entities that are related to the same owner entity.) 
	So, the underlined dotted line notation means that those attributes are the partial keys for the weak entities.

c). I think they did this because a leg instance is a particular occurance of a leg on a particular date. A seat could be reserved by someone on 
	the date of a particular leg instance, but that same seat could also be reserved by someone else on a different date of a particular leg instance. 
	This is why all seats should participate in this relationship; the whole set of seats could be reserved by customers on different dates of different
	flight leg instances, not just a select few of the seats. 

